Answers to Questions:

(a) What information is necessary to specify a state?
(b) What makes an action invalid?
(c) Is this a deterministic search problem?

a) We need current coordinates to specify a state
b) If an action takes the current coordinates out of bounds, or places the coordinates at a '#' position
c) Yes, the search is deterministic. 
d) A solution is any valid path from source to destination (a sequence of coordinates)

(a) What data structure is used for the A* frontier?
(b) How does the program select the next state to expand?
(c) Where is the heuristic calculated?
(d) Does the program explicitly calculate f(n) = g(n) + h(n)?
(e) How does the program prevent unnecessary repeated exploration?

a) A minheap is used to store the frontier (similar to Dijkstra's algorithm)
b) The program finds the state with minimum heuristic distance
c) In line 207, in the snippet (self.manhattan(nxt, self.goal), nxt)
d) In astar(), f_cost = new_g + self.manhattan(nxt, self.goal)
e) By using a dijkstra-like approach, and through the proof of correctness of A*, when a node is first explored (stepped into), we're guaranteed to have found the shortest path, given no negative edge weights.

Measure             BFS         A*
Solution found      Yes         Yes
Path length         20          20
States expanded     59          23


(a) Did both algorithms find a solution?
(b) Did they find paths of the same length?
(c) Which algorithm expanded fewer states?
(d) Why might A* expand fewer states?

a) Yes, both BFS and A* found a solution
b) Yes, both found a minimal path length of 20 steps.
c) A* expanded fewer states than BFS
d) A* uses an informed search via Manhattan distance heuristic, whereas BFS performs a blind search

Reflect on the use of the LLM as an engineering assistant.
Answer the following questions.
1. What parts of the generated code were correct immediately?
2. Did you find any bugs or design problems?
3. How did you discover those problems?
4. Did the LLM use terminology or data structures that you did not understand?
5. Did you modify the LLM-generated code?
6. Which tests were most useful?
7. Could you have trusted the program without testing it?
8. What did you understand about A* that you did not understand before implementing it?


a) The search algorithms themselves were correctly implemented. The LLM struggled to correctly implement the program with tkinter.
b) Yes, I faced a bug where the tkinter window did not open. So I had to scrap it.
c) By testing the LLM generated code instead of seeing its claimed result.
d) No for terminology, yes for data structures because I am not proficient in Python heap datastructures.
e) No
f) Manual testing
g) No
8) That is it pretty much Dijkstra, with the only change being that instead of the minheap sorting by minimum total distance, it sorts by minimum expected distance (heuristic+already travelled)
